# Hospital-Managemnet-System
## Abstract
The project we completed is about HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, which includes handling the doctor's details, the patient's details, and booking appointments, among other things. Doctor information includes their IDs, departments to which they belong, names, and so forth. Patient information includes ID, name, department, gender, age, and so on. Each doctor in the hospital and each patient will have a unique ID, so that if we want to access information about a specific doctor or patient, we may do so by just inputting the ID. It is also possible to make appointments with a specific doctor using this HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Using the doctor ID, the patient can learn about the availability of a specific department's doctor. The patient can then input the appointment session time that they require, and the appointment will be scheduled. If a person wants to change the time of his or her appointment, he or she can amend the appointment by clicking the option 'edit appointment'. If a person want to cancel an appointment that he has scheduled, he should go to the cancel an appointment option and enter his ID. His appointment will be cancelled. This HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM can be accessed in two ways: admin mode and user mode. Only in user mode will we be able to read the details of physicians or patients; only in admin mode will we be able to manage the details of doctors and patients or make an appointment. This HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTMEM will read a file and write it. We can only manage a patient's and doctor's data because of this file. When we enter the information, it is saved in an excel file. So, if we want to know the specifics of a patient or a doctor, we can use the Read file to import these files and print the information we need.
## Introduction
The goal of building this is to streamline hospital management and make things more accessible. A full-fledged programme can meet the needs for daily use in a hospital, and its data can be conveniently stored and accessed. The needed workspace and work can also be minimised. This hospital administration system will allow you to add, amend, or update data, as well as search and delete it. In this procedure, the notions of functions, files, and data structures are frequently used. Anyone with a rudimentary understanding of computers may use this. Using this method, long stalled registers can be eliminated. This is a very frequent programme in any hospital or hotel registration system, for example.In an emergency, these allow us to quickly access information on the patient and contact information, eliminating the need for workers to dig through the book. This facilitates communication between the hospital and the patient.
## Overview of regular HMS:
We will keep all of the patients' and doctors' information in this project. The doctors who are treating the patient with the patient's information. They can be used and shown by this code. This code enables us to update, delete, or amend data that has been saved. An successful Hospital Management System will be founded on standard operating procedures and best practises, with little or no opportunity for mistake. The HMS allows your health facility to improve care for its patients by enabling speedier processes, saving and analysing patient information, preparing and accessing real-time reports, appointment scheduling and tracking, and many other functions. Employees, too, find it easier to manage the large numbers of patients, records, and other activities required to keep a healthcare institution running smoothly.
## Methodology
This is just the hospital management system's code at work, with no user intervention. This code was written in Python, an object-oriented, high-level programming language. Even though we did not use any classes, we did use exception handling to address mistakes that occurred. We must have prior knowledge of SQL, CSS, and HTML in order to complete this UI project. This project requires a basic familiarity of Python concepts such as files, error handling, and loops. In this project, iterative loops are the most commonly employed methodology.
## Process of importing files in main code
First, we have an admin password that allows us to add, update, or delete any data. There is also a user mode that allows us to merely see the data. Only in admin mode can we make changes to data. In this programme, we import two data files containing information about doctors and patients. When we enter admin mode, we can write and edit the imported data files. Loops are used to cross-check each user input and then work on the most fundamental of their inputs. The user provides input based on the user requirements, and the code operates accordingly.We display the amount of options available as well as the option that the user must select. If a user enters incorrect data or input, we use the exception handling concept to prevent any error messages and continue the code until the end.
